QUICKREF.md, before:

# AuthKeeper Quick Reference

## Commands

| Command | Description | Shortcut |
|---------|-------------|----------|
| `authkeeper add` | Add new OIDC client | - |
| `authkeeper token` | Get access token | - |
| `authkeeper list` | List all clients | - |
| `authkeeper delete` | Delete a client | - |
| `authkeeper --help` | Show help | `-h` |
| `authkeeper --version` | Show version | `-v` |

## Keyboard Shortcuts

### Input
- `Enter` - Submit/Confirm
- `Ctrl+C` - Cancel/Exit
- Type naturally at prompts

### Confirmations
- `y` / `yes` - Confirm
- `n` / `no` - Cancel

### List Selection
- Type the number of your choice
- Press `Enter` to confirm

## File Locations

| Item | Location | Permissions |
|------|----------|-------------|
| Vault | `~/.authkeeper/vault.enc` | 0600 |
| Directory | `~/.authkeeper/` | 0700 |

## Security Features

- 🔐 AES-256-GCM encryption
- 🔑 PBKDF2 key derivation (100,000 iterations)
- 🧂 32-byte random salt
- 🎲 Random nonce per operation
- 🔒 Password never stored on disk

## Token Response Fields

```
✓ Token issued successfully!
Client: Production API

┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Access Token:                       │
│                                     │
│ eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6...   │
│                                     │
│ Token Type: Bearer                  │
│ Expires In: 3600 seconds           │
│ Scope: read write                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## OAuth2 Client Credentials Flow

```
┌──────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐
│  AuthKeeper  │────────▶│ Token Server │
│              │  POST   │              │
│              │◀────────│              │
└──────────────┘  Token  └──────────────┘
```

**Request:**
```http
POST /oauth/token
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type=client_credentials
&client_id=...
&client_secret=...
&scope=...
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "access_token": "...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "scope": "read write"
}
```

## Common Token URLs

### Auth0
```
https://YOUR_DOMAIN.auth0.com/oauth/token
```

### Keycloak
```
https://keycloak.example.com/realms/REALM_NAME/protocol/openid-connect/token
```

### Okta
```
https://YOUR_DOMAIN.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/token
```

### Google Cloud
```
https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
```

### Azure AD
```
https://login.microsoftonline.com/TENANT_ID/oauth2/v2.0/token
```

## Using Access Tokens

### cURL
```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
     https://api.example.com/resource
```

### HTTPie
```bash
http GET https://api.example.com/resource \
     Authorization:"Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### JavaScript (fetch)
```javascript
fetch('https://api.example.com/resource', {
  headers: {
    'Authorization': `Bearer ${token}`
  }
})
```

### Python (requests)
```python
import requests

headers = {'Authorization': f'Bearer {token}'}
response = requests.get('https://api.example.com/resource', headers=headers)
```

## Color Scheme

- 🟣 Primary: `#7C3AED` (Purple)
- 🟪 Secondary: `#A78BFA` (Light Purple)
- 🟢 Success: `#10B981` (Green)
- 🔴 Error: `#EF4444` (Red)
- ⚪ Muted: `#6B7280` (Gray)

## Status Indicators

- `...` - Processing/Loading
- `✓` - Success
- `✗` - Error
- `⚠` - Warning
- `💡` - Tip/Information

## Error Codes

| Status | Description | Solution |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| 400 | Bad Request | Check scopes and grant type |
| 401 | Unauthorized | Verify client credentials |
| 403 | Forbidden | Check client permissions |
| 404 | Not Found | Verify token URL |
| 500 | Server Error | Check provider status |

## Backup Strategy

```bash
# Backup vault
cp ~/.authkeeper/vault.enc ~/backup/vault-$(date +%Y%m%d).enc

# Restore vault
cp ~/backup/vault-20241225.enc ~/.authkeeper/vault.enc
```

## Environment Variables

Currently, AuthKeeper doesn't use environment variables. All configuration is interactive through the TUI.

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| 0 | Success |
| 1 | Error |

## Tips

1. ⌨️ **Simple prompts** - Just type and press Enter
2. 🔍 **Read prompts carefully** for instructions
3. 🎨 **Colors help** identify message types
4. ⏰ **Watch for "..."** during operations
5. 💾 **Backup your vault** regularly
6. 🔐 **Strong password** = secure vault
7. 📝 **Organize names** for easy selection
8. 🔄 **Rotate credentials** periodically

---

**Version:** dev  
**License:** MIT  
**Repository:** github.com/ksysoev/authkeeper

Commit message:

Add first-time vault setup with password confirmation
- Add Vault.Exists() method to check if vault file exists
- Add ui.PromptMasterPassword() with confirmation for new vaults
- Require password confirmation on first run (vault creation)
- Add minimum password length validation (8 characters)
- Show helpful message when vault doesn't exist for list/token/delete
- Update all commands to detect first-time setup
- Add comprehensive first-time usage documentation
- Add warnings about password security

User Experience:
- First run of 'add' prompts for password twice with confirmation
- Subsequent runs only ask for password once
- Clear messaging about vault creation vs unlocking
- Validation feedback for password mismatch or too short
- Other commands show friendly message to run 'add' first

Security:
- Password must be entered twice on vault creation
- Minimum 8 character requirement
- Clear warnings about password importance

QUICKREF.md, after:

# AuthKeeper Quick Reference

## First Run

On first run, `authkeeper add` will:
1. Prompt to create a new vault
2. Ask for master password (min 8 chars)
3. Ask to confirm password
4. Create encrypted vault

## Commands

| Command | Description | Shortcut |
|---------|-------------|----------|
| `authkeeper add` | Add new OIDC client | - |
| `authkeeper token` | Get access token | - |
| `authkeeper list` | List all clients | - |
| `authkeeper delete` | Delete a client | - |
| `authkeeper --help` | Show help | `-h` |
| `authkeeper --version` | Show version | `-v` |

## Keyboard Shortcuts

### Input
- `Enter` - Submit/Confirm
- `Ctrl+C` - Cancel/Exit
- Type naturally at prompts

### Confirmations
- `y` / `yes` - Confirm
- `n` / `no` - Cancel

### List Selection
- Type the number of your choice
- Press `Enter` to confirm

## File Locations

| Item | Location | Permissions |
|------|----------|-------------|
| Vault | `~/.authkeeper/vault.enc` | 0600 |
| Directory | `~/.authkeeper/` | 0700 |

## Security Features

- 🔐 AES-256-GCM encryption
- 🔑 PBKDF2 key derivation (100,000 iterations)
- 🧂 32-byte random salt
- 🎲 Random nonce per operation
- 🔒 Password never stored on disk

## Token Response Fields

```
✓ Token issued successfully!
Client: Production API

┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Access Token:                       │
│                                     │
│ eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6...   │
│                                     │
│ Token Type: Bearer                  │
│ Expires In: 3600 seconds           │
│ Scope: read write                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## OAuth2 Client Credentials Flow

```
┌──────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐
│  AuthKeeper  │────────▶│ Token Server │
│              │  POST   │              │
│              │◀────────│              │
└──────────────┘  Token  └──────────────┘
```

**Request:**
```http
POST /oauth/token
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type=client_credentials
&client_id=...
&client_secret=...
&scope=...
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "access_token": "...",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "scope": "read write"
}
```

## Common Token URLs

### Auth0
```
https://YOUR_DOMAIN.auth0.com/oauth/token
```

### Keycloak
```
https://keycloak.example.com/realms/REALM_NAME/protocol/openid-connect/token
```

### Okta
```
https://YOUR_DOMAIN.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/token
```

### Google Cloud
```
https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
```

### Azure AD
```
https://login.microsoftonline.com/TENANT_ID/oauth2/v2.0/token
```

## Using Access Tokens

### cURL
```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
     https://api.example.com/resource
```

### HTTPie
```bash
http GET https://api.example.com/resource \
     Authorization:"Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### JavaScript (fetch)
```javascript
fetch('https://api.example.com/resource', {
  headers: {
    'Authorization': `Bearer ${token}`
  }
})
```

### Python (requests)
```python
import requests

headers = {'Authorization': f'Bearer {token}'}
response = requests.get('https://api.example.com/resource', headers=headers)
```

## Color Scheme

- 🟣 Primary: `#7C3AED` (Purple)
- 🟪 Secondary: `#A78BFA` (Light Purple)
- 🟢 Success: `#10B981` (Green)
- 🔴 Error: `#EF4444` (Red)
- ⚪ Muted: `#6B7280` (Gray)

## Status Indicators

- `...` - Processing/Loading
- `✓` - Success
- `✗` - Error
- `⚠` - Warning
- `💡` - Tip/Information

## Error Codes

| Status | Description | Solution |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| 400 | Bad Request | Check scopes and grant type |
| 401 | Unauthorized | Verify client credentials |
| 403 | Forbidden | Check client permissions |
| 404 | Not Found | Verify token URL |
| 500 | Server Error | Check provider status |

## Backup Strategy

```bash
# Backup vault
cp ~/.authkeeper/vault.enc ~/backup/vault-$(date +%Y%m%d).enc

# Restore vault
cp ~/backup/vault-20241225.enc ~/.authkeeper/vault.enc
```

## Environment Variables

Currently, AuthKeeper doesn't use environment variables. All configuration is interactive through the TUI.

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| 0 | Success |
| 1 | Error |

## Tips

1. ⌨️ **Simple prompts** - Just type and press Enter
2. 🔍 **Read prompts carefully** for instructions
3. 🎨 **Colors help** identify message types
4. ⏰ **Watch for "..."** during operations
5. 💾 **Backup your vault** regularly
6. 🔐 **Strong password** = secure vault
7. 📝 **Organize names** for easy selection
8. 🔄 **Rotate credentials** periodically

---

**Version:** dev  
**License:** MIT  
**Repository:** github.com/ksysoev/authkeeper
